how to use gobos to create special
lighting effects a gobo is a perforated
metal or color stained glass disc
inserted into the gate of a spotlight
between the lantern and the lens the
light is projected through the gobo to
create highly detailed patterns or
special effects go blows can also be
used with special gobo projectors in
which the gobo is placed directly in
front of the lens for the same effect
the term gobo is a shortened form of
goes between or goes before optics and
was minted in the theater film and
television industries since then the
term has expanded to include any form of
light blocker in photography the term
refers to flags and cookies or keuka
neurosis both of which are placed
somewhere in the lights path but not
inside or up against the light source
the term even has use in the recording
industry in which a gobo is a foam
partition used to absorb reverb or
placed between musicians so that each
musician can be mixed separately this
article addresses the original and still
most common sense of the term for any
theater film or television lighting
technician a basic understanding of
Goebbels is essential instructions know
your go goes a metal Gogol creates a
black and white pattern against a scene
or backdrop its internal edges are
distinct a glass gobo on the other hand
can be dyed with complex ly color
designs and or texture to diffuse areas
of life within the design gobos of
either type can be used in combination
to create original projections know
where your go go goes it goes between
the lantern and the lens of the earth or
Fresnel spotlight inside the gate slot
since the light hits the gobo before it
hits the lens the projection will appear
exactly as the gobo artist intended if
you are using a gobo projector the gobo
goes in front of the lens outside the
projector since the gobo is so close to
the lens the clarity of the projected
image is comparable to one produced by a
nurse or Fresnel spotlight know your go
bow holders
come in tab style sandwich Stalin the
host of others some of them are easier
to load some of them sturdier try out a
few different makes em models try your
hand at using rotating go bow holders
projectors these machines come in single
double triple and larger arrays you put
your goebbels in the gates and you are
good to go flip on the power and watch
the fireworks